This Codebook describes the source and processing of the data in the tidydata set

BACKGROUND INFORMATION
The data refers to a set of experiments that have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, the researchers  captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 
The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.
Source: Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. A Public Domain Dataset for Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones. 21th European Symposium on Artificial Neural Networks, Computational Intelligence and Machine Learning, ESANN 2013. Bruges, Belgium 24-26 April 2013.

PRIMARY DATA
The primary data of the experiments have been downloaded from the https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip .  

PROCESSING OF PRIMARY DATA
The primary set of data includes observations on a test sample and training sample. The two samples have been combined in one sample. Only the variables refering to means and standard deviations of the observations have been retained. 
DATA
The data comes from the tidydata.txt file.
The data is organized according to tidy data principles.
The first row includes names of the variables.
The data includes observations for 30 subjects studied under 6 types of activities

VARIABLES
Subject - identifier of the studied subject, integer, with values from 1 to 30
Activity - factor with 6 levels: "WALKING", "WALKING_UPSTAIRS", "WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS", "SITTING", "STANDING", "LAYING" 
